- [Instructor] Let's take a look at our very first
docker compose file,
and see what does it take to star the services
in that compose file,
and also understand the syntax and the semantics of it.
Now, you know the location for where all the
exercise files are available.
I'm using sample docker compose file from there.
I will copy it here,
and then I will go to my terminal,
and then I will use this file over there.
Now, I'm in my terminal here.
This is my chapter three directory.
I'm going to make helloweb.
Let's get to helloweb first.
And the directory is clean.
I'm going to make docker-compose.yml,
and I will paste the content here.
Let's take a look at it before we do anything over here.
This docker compose file is using version three.
Version three is the latest version of the compose file.
Now, when you're doing this at a later point of time,
the version may be different,
so I would recommend checking that,
but this would work today.
Then I have a services tag,
and services tag, we are saying what services exist.
Each service is given a name,
in our case as well,
a service has to have an image.
In our case, it's jboss/wildfly.
And since I'm running the WildFly Container,
I would like to do some volume mapping,
so I can define multiple volume mapping here.
And in this case, I'm saying
take a deployment directory in my home directory,
and map it to opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/deployments.
Why would I do that?
The advantage is if I do this directory mapping,
I can drop any war file
into the ~/deployments directory,
and that war file will automatically get deployed.
And last but not the least,
I have my port mapping done here.
Just to recall the syntax,
this is port 8080 on the host,
and this is port 8080 on the container.
Let's save this docker compose file.
One more thing I want to show you
before I fire up the services here.
I'm in my home directory,
and if I look for deployments,
no such file or directory exist.
Just to verify, this is my home directory.
So now, I'm going to go back,
and I'm going to start my services.
How do I start my services?
Well, I say
docker-compose up -d.
And what it means is
bring up all the services
and run them in a detach mode.
It creates a network for me,
for all the services in the compose file.
It downloads any images for me that needs to be done,
just very similar to what docker CLI does.
But instead of trying to remember
the crypted docker CLI command,
now I have put all the commands
in the docker compose file itself.
One single file, one singe command,
and everything comes out for me,
and there you go.
So my app is now up.
I can say docker-compose ps.
It says the service name here, says the command,
state is up,
and then it shows that all network interfaces on local host,
well, all network interfaces on port 8080 on this machine
are mapped to or forwarded to port 8080 in the container.
We can also take a look at the logs of the service,
and I can just specify -f
to say go follow the logs.
And our WildFly is happily started up here.
Now let's go back in my different terminal here.
And what I can do is I can
copy the files form my repo
chapter2,
and if you recall, we had a war file.
I'm going to take that war file,
and I'm going to copy it to the deployments directory.
Oh, by the way, just remember,
this deployments directory is now
automatically created for us
because we did the volume mapping
in our docker compose file.
So that's kind of cool,
and a convenient feature.
Now, I drop the war file in here.
Let's go to my other terminal here.
In a few seconds, well, actually, you just realized that,
"Oh war file is there."
Now you may wonder what is this red statement here.
Sometimes I've seen WildFly is not able to find
the mount point, which is the directory where it exist,
but the deployment goes through successful.
So if you go to the end of this log,
it says war file was deployed successfully.
Now I can go back to my other terminal,
and I can say curl.
Localhost is where I'm going to refer to.
My port is 8080.
Remember, that was forward to the
container port 8080 as well.
My webapp context is webapp
as a resource,
so I'm going to specify resources,
and I'm going to say persons.
And there you go.
So it just shows me an XML result
that has come out of the services,
very easy, very clean.
Now, I've seen my service coming up.
I've been able to access the service with a single command,
what does it take the bring the service down.
I'm going to kill the logs here
to bring the service down.
It's very intuitive.
Well, think about this.
To bring the service up, you're saying docker-compose up.
What do you think would be for bringing the service down?
Docker-compose down.
And the moment we say that,
it not only stops the containers,
removes the containers,
and it also removes the network that was created
so that the services within the network
or within the docker compose file
can communicate with each other.
Now in this case, if I look at my docker compose file,
I just have a single service,
which is, well, I could've had multiple service,
and we'll look at that in a subsequent section.